---
sidebar_position: 30
---

# Questionnaires

A `Questionnaire` is a resource that defines a structured set of questions intended to gather information from a user or a system.

- Usage of Profiles in Questionnaires: Questionnaires themselves can be constrained by profiles to ensure they meet specific requirements. However, the concept of inheriting a profile directly by a Questionnaire is less common. Instead, a Questionnaire can reference profiles to specify the structure of data it collects or to ensure that responses conform to certain profiles.

Example:

```
{
  "resourceType": "Questionnaire",
  "status": "active",
  "date": "2024-06-04",
  "item": [
    {
      "linkId": "1",
      "text": "What is your name?",
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "linkId": "2",
      "text": "What is your birth date?",
      "type": "date"
    }
  ]
}
```

This `Questionnaire` might be designed to collect information that conforms to a specific `Patient` profile, but it does not "inherit" the profile directly. Instead, a `QuestionnaireResponse` might be validated against a profile to ensure data collected aligns with the profile's constraints.

# Summary

- **CapabilityStatements** use profiles to declare which resource profiles are supported by the FHIR server.

- **Questionnaires** do not inherit profiles directly but can be designed to collect data that conforms to specific profiles and ensure that QuestionnaireResponses align with those profiles.

In conclusion, while both CapabilityStatements and Questionnaires utilize profiles, they do so in different ways aligned with their respective purposes within the FHIR framework.

> Profile is not supported as a resource
