---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# IMS Global Learning Consortium Standards

This organization is focused on creating standards that ensure that different educational technology systems can work together seamlessly. These standards cover a wide range of educational tools, from learning management systems (LMS) to assessment tools, student information systems (SIS), and more.

**Overview:** IMS Global provides a suite of standards designed for interoperability in educational technology. Some of their standards include:
Learning Information Services (LIS): A standard for exchanging information about people, courses, enrollments, grades, and more.

- **OneRoster:** Focused on the exchange of roster information between systems, including students, teachers, classes, and enrollments.

- **Components:** IMS standards include detailed data models for entities such as Learners, Instructors, Classes, Courses, Organizations, and Resources.

**Usage:** These standards are used internationally by educational technology providers and institutions to ensure interoperability between different educational tools and platforms.

## Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI)

**Overview:** OneRoster is a standard developed by IMS Global Learning Consortium, primarily used for the exchange of roster information, including students, teachers, classes, and enrollments, in educational technology systems.

**JSON Format:** OneRoster defines a REST API that exchanges data in JSON format, allowing easy integration between Learning Management Systems (LMS), Student Information Systems (SIS), and other educational tools.

**Entities:** OneRoster includes models for Users (Students, Teachers), Classes, Enrollments, Courses, and Resources.

> The standards are static, with the latest versions released 2015 (Learning Tools Interoperability) and 2014 (Learning Information Services) [https://www.1edtech.org/specifications](https://www.1edtech.org/specifications).
